# determination-of-age-and-gender-using-dental-xray
As a result of some events (disasters, inheritance, disappearances etc.), age and gender determination can be vital for people. Forensic medical institutions make the determination of age by examining the structures such as teeth and bones. Procedures for forensic science are currently estimated manually according to certain morphological findings on the tooth. Image preprocessing is applied on these images. Dental images are automatically and dynamically segmented and feature vectors are created by extracting their features. The generated feature vectors are dynamic and presented as inputs to the Multilayer Perceptron Neural Network. In this project, age and gender will be determined from dental x-ray images.

In the forensic medicine, age determination process may be required for cases where there is a doubt about the age and where no identity can be determined. Generally, the methods used for age estimation are in three groups; radiological, morphological and histological. The most common radiological and morphological methods are used for age determination. The methods used in the estimation of age can differences between societies because of factors such as life style, nutritional habits, genetic characteristics, climate. Teeth are more resistant to environmental conditions, high temperature, microbial activity and mechanical forces. For this reason, the teeth are more valuable than the bone in predicting the age after death. The aim of this project is to make the age estimation process more accurate and standardized by forensic science and legal medicine by applying image processing techniques and machine learning algorithm to dental x-ray images.

steps to run:
1:store the dental xrays in the format of slno_age_gender_date[yyyymmdd].jpeg
2.Run the model_for_Gender_prediction.ipynb notebook for generating the model for gender classification
3.Run the model_for_age_prediction.ipynb notebook for generating the model for age classification
4.Run predictions_of_age_and_gender_using_trained_models.ipynb for predction of the outputs for given image.
